Hello and welcome back to the course in
R programming. Today we've got a pretty
cool topic ahead of us,
we're talking about naming dimensions
and so what is this all about? Well let's
dive straight into it.
Let's imagine that we have a matrix and
matrix of 15 elements and all these 27
numbers and 1, 0 so how do we access the 0,
Well from what we already know, it's
pretty simple right?
All you have to do is type in the name
of the matrix which is a in this case
and then in square brackets the number
of the row, third row, fourth column and
you'll get your 0 but what we're
exploring today is a fact that in R
you can actually give your rows and
columns name. So you can rename that and
you can rename that. Let's start with the
columns. Let's have a look at an example,
Let's say we don't want to use those
numbers anymore and we want to give our
calls names. We'll call them p,q,r,s and t
and in this case, if we have a matrix
like this with names columns, how would
we access 0 now?
Well it's also pretty simple, all you
have to do is type in the name of the
matrix the number of the row and the
name of the column this time and make
sure to put it in quotation marks
because it's a name and you call it out
the column by name so you need the
quotation marks. So this way, you will
access the zero and now let's have a look
at the rows. Let's say these names
disappear, the current generic ones and
we give it some interesting names like
Hello X and best. Now bear in mind here
that, you can use a word and letter even
a number but of course the number will
be represented as the character of the
number not just the number itself and in
this case if you want access 0, we would
type in A and best in quotation marks
and S in quotation marks. So we're
calling out the row and the column by
their names. Now what I wanted to point
out here is that all three of these
approaches for accessing the zero are
actually correct because the numeration
of the rows and the columns is going to
stick with the matrix forever regardless
what you do with the matrix the rows and
columns are always going to have numbers
so whichever one of these two approaches
you use is actually going to be correct
and in fact is a fourth approach as you
can guess one we haven't outlined here
yet is when you call out the row by its
name and the column by its number. So its the
fourth approach here, although can you
tell you what is wrong in this
representation?
That's correct, we forgot the quotation
marks so let's put them back in place. So
there we go, four approaches to access a 0 in a
named matrix and of course doesn't have
to be a zero you can access pretty much
virtually any element in this manner.
Alright so now that we've looked at
matrices, let's have a look at vectors
because surely if we have such a great
and cool concept for matrices, it has to be
something similar for vectors and that's
correct.
Here we've got a vector of five elements
and it's not a named vector it is just a
standard vector where the elements have
their numbers 1,2,3,4,5. Now what we can do is
give these elements names and therefore
turning the vector into named vector.
Let's use the names a b c d and e for
simplicity and how would we access to 0
in this case?
Well it's also pretty straightforward,
you can either just say v4 because
that's the fourth element or you can say
V and in quotation marks
d because that element now has a name
which is d and this brings us to the end
of this tutorial. I look forward to
seeing you next time and until then,
happy coding.